---
title: "What I did in 2021?"
summary: "Summary of what I did in 2021."
date: 2022-01-14
tags:
  - c++
  - raspberry-pi
---

Here I'm going over what I did in 2021.

#  Built a Raspberry Pi Cluster

*  Yes it's all networked and in a PC case.
*  Did not really use it for anything yet.


#  Wrote a ray tracer in C++.

I bought `The Ray Tracer Challenge` book.
*  I wrote a custom unit testing library and a python script to translate Gherkin to C++ tests.
*  Created spheres, cubes, CSGs, OBJ shapes from triangles.
*  Matrix multiplication, vectors.
*  I optimized matrix multiplication (of two 4x4) to be basically O(1), then I realized I could've just cached it.
*  Played around with gprof to make it fast as I can.
*  Creates a small UI for this.
*  Added Lua scripting with LuaJIT.
*  I learned a lot from this project, but I feel it can be improved a lot.
    *  Use GPU instead using CPU, Rewrite in OpenCL, HIP, Cuda? (It can at the moment use all CPU cores).
*  I still did not put this to a git repo, and I should do so.

---

📝<small>
CSG means Constructive Solid Geometry. Basically allows you to combine primitive shapes such as spheres, to come up with complex shapes by doing set-like operations (intersect, union).
</small>

---



#  Started working on a game project

*  This is still in progress, and I have not got to this again as I was focusing more on the new programming language.
*  It's immensely harder than I thought to squeeze out heavy processing under few milliseconds.
*  SFML is easy to use.

#  Started working on a new programming language

*  Goal here is to create a language with Python like syntax that complies to C99. Statically typed and manual memory managed.
*  Strings will be special as the language will copy and free strings it will behave like any other value type like `int` to the user.

---

📝<small>
Will be using SDS library for Strings.
</small>

---

